3-3. This exercise deals with generalizations of the transportation model and data of Figure 3-1.

(a) Add two parameters, supply_pct and demand_pct, to represent the maximum fraction of
a mill’s supply that may be sent to any one factory, and the maximum fraction of a factory’s
demand that may be satisfied by any one mill. Incorporate these parameters into the model of Fig-
ure 3-1a.
Solve for the case in which no more than 50% of a mill’s supply may be sent to any one factory,
and no more than 85% of a factory’s demand may be satisfied by any one mill. How does this
change the minimum cost and the optimal amounts shipped?

(b) Suppose that the rolling mills do not produce their own slabs, but instead obtain slabs from two
other plants, where the following numbers of tons are to be made available:
    MIDTWN 2700
    HAMLTN 4200

The cost per ton of shipping a slab from a plant to a mill is as follows:

       GARY CLEV PITT
MIDTWN 12   8    17
HAMLTN 10   5    13

All other data values are the same as before, but with supply_pct reinterpreted as the maximum
fraction of a plant’s supply that may be sent to any one mill.
Formulate this situation as an AMPL model. You will need two indexed collections of variables,
one for the shipments from plants to mills, and one for the shipments from mills to factories. Ship-
ments from each mill will have to equal supply, and shipments to each factory will have to equal
demand as before; also, shipments out of each mill will have to equal shipments in.
Solve the resulting linear program. What are the shipment amounts in the minimum-cost solution?

> Don't have the Mill in = Mill out part working

(c) In addition to the differences in shipping costs, there may be different costs of production at the
plants and mills. Explain how production costs could be incorporated into the model.

> No idea

(d) When slabs are rolled, some fraction of the steel is lost as scrap. Assuming that this fraction
may be different at each mill, revise the model to take scrap loss into account.

> Multiply supply by 0.9 (ie: 10% loss) after you have asserted supply = avail_Slab

(e) In reality, scrap is not really lost, but is sold for recycling. Make a further change to the model
to account for the value of the scrap produced at each mill.

>


----------

3-4. This exercise considers variations on the assignment problem introduced in Section 3.3.

(a) Try reordering the list of members of DEST in the data (Figure 3-2), and solving again. Find a
reordering that causes your solver to report a different optimal assignment.

> No idea

(b) An assignment that gives even one person a very low-ranked office may be unacceptable, even
if the total of the rankings is optimized. In particular, our solution gives one individual her sixth
choice; to rule this out, change all preferences of six or larger in the cost data to 99, so that they
will become very unattractive. (You’ll learn more convenient features for doing the same thing in
later chapters, but this crude approach will work for now.) Solve the assignment problem again,
and verify that the result is an equally good assignment in which no one gets worse than fifth
choice.

> Objective again = 28, highest choice = 5

Now apply the same approach to try to give everyone no worse than fourth choice. What do you
find?
> Daskin    C140   99
> Daskin is stuck with an office they don't want


(c) Suppose now that offices C118, C250 and C251 become unavailable, and you have to put two
people each into C138, C140 and C246. Add 20 to each ranking for these three offices, to reflect
the fact that anyone would prefer a private office to a shared one. What other modifications to the
model and data would be necessary to handle this situation? What optimal assignment do you get?

> I changed the demand param so that C138 C140 and C246 have a demand of 2 while the other 5 rooms have a demand of 1.
  I then changed the cost matrix so that D237 D239 D241 M233 and M239 have costs of 1 to 5.
  I then changed the costs of C138 C140 and C246 to "26" "27" and "28".
  This is such that the rooms would have been in order of 1-8 (with the C rooms being 6-8), and then the C rooms had 20 added.

(d) Some people may have seniority that entitles them to greater consideration in their choice of
office. Explain how you could enhance the model to use seniority level data for each person.

> There could perhaps be a 1-10 scale for seniority, 10 being the longest-serving and 1 the shortest-serving staff members.
The "cost" then would not just be their choice, but their choice * their level of seniority.
This means if a new staff member and an old staff member both want the same room, the old member gets it.
